this video is brought to you by
brilliant outside of the US in the rest
of the Western World Donald Trump isn't
the most popular politician his first
term coincided with an unprecedented
collapse in America's Global reputation
at least amongst its allies and Yuga
polling ahead of the 2024 election found
that voters in the UK France Germany
Italy Spain Sweden and Denmark would all
vote for Harris by overwhelming margins
if they were able to however one place
where Trump really is popular is Israel
Channel 12 polling from late October
suggested that an overwhelming 66%
majority of Israelis wanted Trump to win
the presidency with just 177% of
Israelis saying they preferred Harris
and Israeli politicians reacted to his
reelection with Jubilation in a post on
X for instance Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu hailed the results as
the greatest comeback ever while his
far-right Finance Minister bezel
smotrich announced that 202 would be the
year of sovereignty in Judea and Samaria
essentially implying that Israel plans
to use Trump's return to Annex the West
Bank which didn't go down well with the
International Community so in this video
we're going to take a look at why Trump
is so popular in Israel what his Israel
policy might end up looking like and why
he might not end up being quite as
staunchly pro-israel as Netanyahu and Co
[Music]
assume before we start if you haven't
already please consider subscribing and
ringing the bell to stay in the loop and
be notified when we release new videos
so let's get straight into it and start
with the big question why are Israelis
and the Israeli government so keen on
Trump well it's in part because
Netanyahu and the Israeli right think
that Biden has been too critical of
Israel and worry that Harris would be
even more so but it's mainly because
Trump was pretty pro-israel during his
first term in office his Israel policies
included mve the US Embassy to Jerusalem
cutting funding to unrar the UN Agency
for Palestinian refugees and reversing
Decades of US policy by recognizing
Israeli sovereignty over the Golden
Heights which Israel seized from Syria
in
1967 Trump's Administration even
announced that the US no longer
considered Israeli settlements in the
West Bank to be in violation of
international law going against the
position implicitly endorsed by the
Obama Administration in late 2016 and
flirted with actually supporting
Israel's formal annexation of the
occupied parts of the West Bank in early
2020 in this context you can see why his
reelection has triggered the response it
has from Netanyahu and his allies but
it's at least possible that Trump won't
be quite as unequivocally pro- Israel as
Netanyahu and Co apparently assume for
starters Trump no longer has a great
personal relationship with Netanyahu
while they apparently got on pretty well
during Trump's first term Trump really
soured on Netanyahu Yahoo after he
immediately bubbled up to Joe Biden once
he won the 2020 election in an interview
with Israeli journalist Barack Ravid in
December 2021 Trump said BBY BBY could
have stayed quiet he's made a terrible
mistake there were also a couple of
moments in the campaign where Trump
sounded surprisingly ambiguous while he
did spend most of the campaign insisting
he did more for Israel than any other
president and that he was Israel's best
friend he also said that Israel was
quote losing the pr War by releasing the
most heinous most horrible tapes of
buildings falling down Trump even
appeared to agree with a genocide Joe
chant at one of his rallies when he
turned to the crowd and said they're not
wrong but the big reason that Trump
might clash with Netanyahu is that he's
always branded himself as the dealmaker
during the campaign he promised to end
the wars and even said in April that
Israel should quote get back to peace
and stop killing people but Trump's
enthusiasm for quick deals will put him
at odds with with the Israeli leadership
because well netanyahu's maximalist War
AIMS in Gaza namely destroying Hamas
whatever that means can't be achieved
anytime soon Netanyahu is unlikely to
agree to anything that falls short
because a pause before that point would
embarrass him and probably mean new
elections which he'd lose there's a
similar dynamic in Lebanon where
Israel's war aims seem to be constantly
expanding and it's hard to imagine the
current Israeli government accepting
anything short of the complete removal
of Hezbollah basically if Trump pushes
for a deal Netanyahu is going to resist
because any pause in the fighting before
Hamas and Hezbollah are somehow totally
destroyed will probably lead to his
political downfall interestingly a
similar Dynamic nearly played out in
Trump's first term when Trump tried to
solve the Israel Palestine problem to do
this he literally didn't talk to the
Palestinians only the Israelis and he
along with Netanyahu and his son-in-law
Jared Kushner came up with an
unsurprisingly pro-israel plan where
Israel was basically allowed to keep the
land in the West Bank that had been
occupied by settlers and most of
Jerusalem in practice this meant that
Palestinians only got about 70% of the
West Bank and the territory was
completely non-contiguous this was
widely perceived by both the
Palestinians and the International
Community as being unfair to Palestine
and the Palestinian leadership did
actually reject it but what's
interesting is that the plan only fully
collapsed because at least according to
journalist Thomas Freedman the
pro-settler right wiers in netanyahu's
government also rejected it on the
grounds that they worried that seeding
any land at all to the Palestinians
would pave the way to a Palestinian
state which they saw as unacceptable in
other words Trump tried to make a deal
so asked Netanyahu what do you want
Netanyahu said 30% of the West Bank keep
all the settlements and basically all of
Jerusalem and Trump said fine only for
Netanyahu to say uh actually I can't
accept my own deal n yahu got out of
this diplomatic mess with the Abraham
Accords which essentially ignored the
Palestinian issue and instead focused on
normalizing Israel's relations with
other Arab countries but if doing a deal
with Netanyahu on Palestine was
difficult in Trump's first term it's
going to be even more difficult in his
second now to be clear we're not saying
that Trump won't be pro- Israel
ultimately no one knows what Trump's
Israel policy is going to be and a lot
will depend on how much influence his
cabinet has given their over whelmingly
pro-israel especially his secretary of
state Marco Rubio and his Israel
Ambassador Mike Hooke who to give you a
sense of quite how Pro Israeli is once
said there's really no such thing as a
Palestinian and there's no such thing as
the West Bank it's Judea and Samaria
there is no such thing as settlements
their communities their neighborhoods
their cities there's no such thing as an
occupation nonetheless the point we're
trying to make is that if Trump wants to
protect his image as the non-nonsense
dealmaker who keeps the world World in
check he might well push for a deal in
the Middle East and this probably will
put him at odds with both Netanyahu and
much of the Israeli right now as a tldr
viewer it's clear that you have a thirst
for learning after all why else would
you have watched a 10-minute video
explaining Trump's Israel policy now if
you want to continue your Learning
Journey you really should check out
brilliant brilliant is the online
learning platform where you learn by
doing with thousands of interactive
lessons in maths data analysis
programming and AI these Hands-On
lessons have you comparing circuits to
understand voltage and current playing
snooker to learn the rules of collision
planning your itinery for an
Intergalactic Music Festival on A
Spacetime diagram and more that way
you'll build your natural intuition
while gaining deep knowledge of
scientific principles in fact brilliant
actually recently launched tons of new
data science content all of which uses
real world data to help you see Trends
and make better informed decisions and
don't worry you don't need to be a
world-renowned scientist to understand
these courses either Brilliance courses
are designed for Learners of any level
found out more and to try everything
brilliant has to offer for free for a
full 30 days visit brilliant.org
tldr or click the link in the
description you'll also get 20% off an
annual premium subscription thanks for
your support and thanks to brilliant for
supporting this video